NAME: Data from the Television Game Show "Friend or Foe?"
TYPE: Observational
SIZE: 454 Observations, 14 Variables

DESCRIPTIVE ABSTRACT:
This dataset contains descriptive data of contestants on the game shoe "Friend or Foe?".  Information on the contestant's 
race, sex, age, prize money, and playing strategy are included.  

SOURCE:
The data were obtained by taping episodes of "Friend or Foe?" from the Game Show Network.  No information was obtained 
directly from the producers of the show.  A total of 76 episodes (28 from Season 1 and 48 from Season 2) were recorded 
between August 2002 and March 2003.

DESCRIPTION OF "FRIEND OR FOE?":
The show consists of six strangers who pair up at the start of the show to form three teams of two. Each team is separated 
into isolation chambers where all trivia rounds will be played. The newly formed teams have to work together and agree on 
answers to trivia questions, in order to build a bank account. At the end of each round (there are 3 rounds total) the 
lowest scoring team is eliminated. Before the team is dismissed, they enter the "Trust Box" where they decide how their 
winnings up to that point are divided. In the Trust Box, each player has a button. No one else can see this button. Each 
team enters the box, and the division of their winnings is dependant upon which button each player chooses. There are (3) 
possible outcomes: 

1) FRIEND - FRIEND If both players do not press the button (Choosing to be FRIENDS) the total winnings will be divided 
equally between the two. 

2) FRIEND - FOE If only one player presses the "FOE" button, he or she will walk away with the entire amount, leaving the 
other player with nothing. 

3) FOE - FOE If both players choose to press the "FOE" button, then all the money is lost, and both players walk away with 
nothing. 

In the third round, the remaining team has 60 seconds to answer 10 questions, as quickly as possible to accumulate more 
money. Once three wrong answers are given, or the ten questions are answered, the round is over.    


VARIABLE DESCRIPTIONS:
Column	Description
male	1 if Male; 0 otherwise
white	1 if white; 0 otherwise
age	Contestant's age in years
foe	1 if contestant plays foe; 0 otherwise
round2	1 if contestant eliminated in Round 2;0 otherwise
round3	1 if contestant eliminated in Round 3;0 otherwise
season2	1 if Season 2 show; 0 otherwise
cash	The amount of cash in the trust box
male1	1 if partner is male; 0 otherwise
white1	1 if partner is white; 0 otherwise
age1	Partner's age in years
foe1	1 if partner plays foe; 0 otherwise
win	Money won by contestant
win1	Money won by partner

Notes: If foe and foe1 are both 1, then both contestants receive zero prize money.  If foe and foe1 are both zero, the 
amount of cash in the trust box is split evenly between the players.  If one of foe/foe1 is 1 and the other is 0, then the 
contestant playing foe wins the entire trust box.  To distinguish between single-sex and mixed-sex games, add the binary 
variables male and male1 together, where a value of 0 indicates a single-sex female game, value of 2 indicates a single-sex 
male game, and a value of 1 indicates a mixed-sex game. This is a text file that is tab delimited.

PEDAGOGICAL NOTES:
The data are useful for a number of different statistical applications, form simple descriptive statistics and hypothesis 
testing, to more advanced topics such as linear probability models and probit regression.  For econometrics courses, the 
students' interest should be piqued, not only because they may have watched the show, but because the data are useful for 
testing predictions about the prisoner's dilemma model.  


SUBMITTED BY:
David Kalist
Department of Economics
Shippensburg University
Shippensburg, PA 17257
dekali@wharf.ship.edu

